Educational Virtual Clusters for On-demand MPI/Hadoop/Condor in Future
  Grid


      Authors:

Renato Figueiredo (University of Florida), David Wolinsky (University of
Florida) and Panoat Chuchaisri (University of Florida)


      Time:

10:00am - 12:00pm


      Abstract:

FutureGrid (www.futuregrid.org) is an experimental computational testbed
slated to become part of the TeraGrid infrastructure. FutureGrid
provides unique capabilities that enable researchers to deploy
customized environments for their experiments in grid and cloud
computing. A key enabling technology for this is virtualization and the
provisioning of Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) through cloud
computing middleware. A previous presentation on TeraGrid 2010 has
described the core technology that forms the basis for FutureGrid
training and education activities -- a system which leverages
virtualization, cloud computing and self-configuring capabilities to
create self-contained, flexible, plug-and-play "educational appliances".

In this abstract, and in the presentation at the conference, we will
describe and demonstrate how educational virtual appliances are
automatically self-configured to enable on-demand deployment of three
popular distributed/cloud computing stacks (Condor, MPI, and Hadoop)
within and/or across FutureGrid sites. The main benefit of this
capability to educational activities is that isolated virtual clusters
for individuals or classes can be created on demand by instructors (or
students themselves), and the entire middleware is self-configured,
allowing activities to focus on the application of distributed/cloud
computing platforms rather than the configuration of middleware. The
provisioning time of an isolated, educational virtual cluster is of the
order of a few minutes. It requires no configuration from instructors or
students other than joining a Web 2.0 site to create and manage a group
for their class.

In terms of design and implementation, the educational virtual cluster
on-demand uses Condor as the underlying scheduler by leveraging previous
work on the Grid Appliance. Condor is then used to dispatch MPI and
Hadoop daemons -- users create on-demand MPI or Hadoop virtual clusters
by submitting Condor jobs. MPI tasks are submitted as together with the
job that creates an MPI ring, while Hadoop tasks are submitted to the
virtual cluster using standard Hadoop tools.

The integration with FutureGrid is such that new users can deploy a
single virtual machine on FutureGrid (using Nimbus or Eucalyptus), and
the machine automatically connects to a small "sandbox" public shared
resource pool where the user is able to go through simple tutorials and
interact with a virtual cluster with short turn-around time. Users can
also deploy private virtual clusters by creating a group using a simple
Web 2.0 user interface.

At the conference, the presentation of this abstract will describe the
design principles, architecture, and deployment experiences with
on-demand virtual clusters based on virtual appliance technologies used
in education and training in FutureGrid. This includes an overview of
the underlying virtual appliance technology, and the process of
automatic configuration of Condor, MPI and Hadoop on-demand. In addition
to training/education, it is expected that these techniques can be of
interest to a broader TeraGrid'11 audience because they can be applied
for the creation of virtual clusters on demand to support other
applications and experiments on FutureGrid and TeraGrid. The
presentation will describe examples of using these appliances in
hands-on educational activities, including a TeraGrid introduction to
MPI module, with a brief hands-on demonstration using the presenter's
laptop. Attendees of this presentation will be exposed to the process of
how they would go about creating a virtual cluster of their own on
FutureGrid for educational activities involving Condor, MPI and/or Hadoop.
